Review Subspace network protocol titles (#37)
subspace/subnomicon: docs/network/nodes.md

---
title: Node Types and Roles
sidebar_position: 1
description: Participants in the Autonomys Network
keywords:
    - Consensus
    - Network
    - Node
    - Peer
last_update:
  date: 05/02/2024
  author: Saeid Yazdinejad
---

> A Autonomys Network Node can run in several modes depending on configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Autonomys Network Node can run in several modes depending on configuration:
```

### Full Node

Full Nodes participate fully in the network by processing all blocks and serving peers. Full nodes retain recent history and state for a configurable number of recent blocks until it is archived and pruned. A full node is a default configuration for farmers and operators.

### Archival Node

> Archival Nodes' responsibilities are a superset of those of full nodes. They retain the entire blockchain history and state and perform all the functions of full nodes. Archival nodes are helpful for block explorers and historical queries. Autonomys Labs will maintain several archival nodes as a public good.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Archival Nodes' responsibilities are a superset of those of full nodes. They retain the entire blockchain history and state and perform all the functions of full nodes. Archival nodes are helpful for block explorers and historical queries. The Subspace Foundation will maintain several archival nodes as a public good.
```
